# Intro to ICT <small>CSC101</small>

| | |
|-|-|
| Course Title | Intro to ICT |
| Corse Code | CSC101 |
| Credit Hours | 3(2, 1) |
| Pre-requisite(s) | - |

The course is designed to cover topics, which illustrate how computers are being used in business, scientific, engineering, medical, economic, and social areas of human activity. Students will be provided with knowledge and skills for use of computing and communication technologies to solve real life problems. At the end of this course students will be able to apply sets of productivity tools.

## Learning Objectives
This course is intended to give an overview of the complete program of studies in computing and its structure where:

* Students will be introduced to History of computer systems and computer applications.
* Students will learn in which form the data is stored and processed in the computer system, including different number systems to represent data.
* Students will learn the techniques of problem solving and the way how a solution to a problem can be represented pictorially as well as graphically.
* Students will learn about basics of algorithm.
* Students will have an overview of software engineering.
* Students will learn the basic concepts of internet, WWW.
* Students will learn the basic concepts of network, networking, network structure and web mail applications.
* Students will learn about basic computer languages, language translator and algorithm.
* Students will learn the basic concepts of Data Base Management System
* Students will have an overview of Computer Graphics
* Students will be able to learn about Artificial Intelligence and its applications.
* Students will learn about basic about information security and defence against these threats
* Students will learn about issues Related to Information Accuracy, Rights, and Conduct
* Student will be able to operate computer and work on Word processors, Spreadsheets, Presentation, database and programming applications.

## Course Outline

* World of Computers
* Computers & Society
* A brief History of computing
* Number Systems & there interconversion
* Algorithms
    * Branches, Loops & thier combination
    * Working of algorithms and dry run
* Basic Computer languages and language translator
* Program Development Life Cycle
* System Development Life Cycle
* Networks & Data Transmission
    * Network Mediums
    * Network Topologies
    * Archietures of Network
    * Bandwith
    * Analog vs Digital
* Internet and World Wide Web
    * Breif History
    * WWW vs Internet
    * DNS & network address
* Computer Security
* Rights, Ethics, Health, Access, and the Environment
* DBMS
    * Data Concepts and Characteristics
    * Data Hierarchy
    * Entities and Entity Relationships
    * Data Integrity, Security, and Privacy
* Artificial Intelligence
* Computer Graphics

## Text books
* Introduction To Computers 6th edition By Peter Norton Deborah Morley, Charles S. Parker, (2014)
* Understanding Computers: Today and Tomorrow, Comprehensive, 15 th Edition, Cengage Learning, Nell Dale, John Lewis, (2012)
* Computer Science Illuminated, 5th Edition, Jones &amp; Bartlett Learning.


