# Professional Practices (IT) <small>CSC110</small>

| | |
|-|-|
| Course Title | Professional Practices (IT) |
| Corse Code | CSC110 |
| Credit Hours | 3(3, 0) |
| Pre-requisite(s) | - |

## Prior Knowledge

It is vital that students must have fundamental understanding of computers and IT technologies.

## Educational Aim

### Subject Specific knowledge, understanding and skills
* To discuss various legal, social and ethical issues in the IT professional industry.
* To identify risk in use of computing technologies and provide precautions.
* To explore different agencies and regulatory bodies.
* To understand ethics and protection of intellectual property rights.
* To understand the personal and professional rights of an individual.
* To understand personal and professional responsibilities by following standard codes of ethics.
* To discuss various legal, social and ethical issues in the IT.

### Transferable Skills

* To research and review current progress in area of Computer science.
* Encourage students to explore new technologies for protection of personal data, cybercrime and intellectual property.
* Encourage students to review multiple manuscripts and build research build research publication ability.


## Learning Objectives
The aim of this course is to give foundation to students, which is required to make an appropriate
decision in their professional lives with difficult situations involving (ethical issues, violation of
professional code of practices, legal issues, privacy boundaries, and cyber and workplace crimes) and
make a positive impact in the field of IT.

## Course Content
* Introduction to Information Technology (IT)
* Professionalism (in general and in the field of IT)
* Professional activities and their role in society
* Professional Ethics
* Misuse of IT and risks
* Hacking, ethical hacking
* Information Security and privacy
* Issues in Social Web (privacy, trust, influence, etc)
* plagiarism
* Intellectual property and software laws
* Social responsibilities of an IT professional

## Text Books
* Sara Baase (2013), A Gift of Fire, Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues for Computers and the Internet, 4th Edition, Prentice-Hall.

## Reference Books
* Ferrora, Reder, Bird, Darrow, Aresly, Kiosek, Lichtenstein (2012), “CyberLaw Text & Cases”, 3rd edition, South Western’s Special Topics Collection, CENGAGE Learning.
* John Viega, Gary McGraw (2013), Building Secure Software, Addison-Wesley Professional Computing Series, Pearson.
* Business Ethics (Third Edition, 1999) byWilliam Shaw (Business Ethics (Third Edition, 1999)