# Report Writing Skills <small>Hybrid</small>

| | |
|-|-|
| Course Title | Report Writing Skills |
| Corse Code | HUM102 |
| Credit Hours | 3(3, 0) |
| Hybrid | Yes |
| Pre-requisite(s) | ~HUM100 |
| COMSATS CourseWare Link | http://ccw.vcomsats.edu.pk/Course.aspx?CID=MQ== |

## Learning Objectives

Upon successful completion of the course, the students will be able to:

* Understand the significance of professional communication in today’s world and could distinguish between traditional communication and modern communication strategies.
* Examine the different types of communicative (professional) environments.
* Identify different variables involved in communication situations and know how to adjust mode, means and tone of communication.
* Know how to write and present technically.

## Course Outline

* Introduction to Report Writing
* Introduction to Technical Communication/Writing
* The Writing Process
* 7 Cs of Effective Communication
* Overview of Memoranda
* Email Writing
* Letter Writing
* Presentation Skills
* Plagiarism and Referencing
* Resume/CV Writing
* Interview Skills
* Basic Grammar
* Barriers to Effective Communication

## Books
* Rutherford A. J. 2000. Basic Communication skills for Technology, 2nd Edition, UK: Prentice Hall
* Guffey M. E.. 2010. Essentials of Business Communication, 8th Edition, USA: Cengage Learning
* Gerson S. J. & Gerson S. M. 2001. Technical Writing – Process & Product, 5th Edition, UK: Prentice Hall
* Guffey, M. E. & B. Du Babcock, 2008. Essentials of Bsuiness Communication,Pakistan: Cengage Learning
* Riordon, D. G. & Pauley, S. E. 2004. Technical Report Writing Today, 8th Edition, India: Cengage learning