# Report Writing Skills <small>Hybrid</small>

**COMSATS CourseWare Link**: http://ccw.vcomsats.edu.pk/Course.aspx?CID=MQ==

## Learning Objectives

The module will look at, in detail, the major concepts and skills as well as their practical application that are vital in todays’s technologically advanced business world with high demand of well-developed communication skills especially writing. It will help you get a strong and clear understanding and practice of the key skills needed for business graduates in the current competitive world.

By the end of this module, you will be well aware of the modern day workplace trends prevalent in today’s job market, alongwith having a clear understanding of major concepts related to communicating in a business settings, the variables involved and how to make use of this knowledge to your advantage when communicating in varied business settings. In addition, you will be able to write business documents well and give good, well-organized and coherent presentations.

## Course Outline

* Introduction to Report Writing
* Introduction to Technical Communication/Writing
* The Writing Process
* 7 Cs of Effective Communication
* Overview of Memoranda
* Email Writing
* Letter Writing
* Presentation Skills
* Plagiarism and Referencing
* Resume/CV Writing
* Interview Skills
* Basic Grammar
* Barriers to Effective Communication

## Books
* Rutherford A. J. 2000. Basic Communication skills for Technology, 2nd Edition, UK: Prentice Hall
* Guffey M. E.. 2010. Essentials of Business Communication, 8th Edition, USA: Cengage Learning
* Gerson S. J. & Gerson S. M. 2001. Technical Writing – Process & Product, 5th Edition, UK: Prentice Hall
* Guffey, M. E. & B. Du Babcock, 2008. Essentials of Bsuiness Communication,Pakistan: Cengage Learning
* Riordon, D. G. & Pauley, S. E. 2004. Technical Report Writing Today, 8th Edition, India: Cengage learning